personal data concerning him or her. 
the name and the form of the legal person and the contact details of the legal person. 
processor's or an intermediary's website in the Union, of an email address or of other contact details, or the use 
of a language generally used in the third country where the controller is established, is insufficient to ascertain 
such intention, factors such as the use of a language or a currency generally used in one or more Member States 
controller not established in the Union, such as in a Member State's diplomatic mission or consular post. 
the use of additional information should be considered to be information on an identifiable natural person. To 
be used, such as singling out, either by the controller or by another person to identify the natural person directly 
which does not relate to an identified or identifiable natural person or to personal data rendered anonymous in 
identification tags. This may leave traces which, in particular when combined with unique identifiers and other 
information received by the servers, may be used to create profiles of the natural persons and identify them. 
such as by a written statement, including by electronic means, or an oral statement. This could include ticking a 
box when visiting an internet website, choosing technical settings for information society services or another 
processing has multiple purposes, consent should be given for all of them. If the data subject's consent is to be 
to the use of the service for which it is provided. 
that natural person; a number, symbol or particular assigned to a natural person to uniquely identify the natural 
marketing or creating personality or user profiles and the collection of personal data with regard to children 
data subject has given consent to the processing operation. In particular in the context of a written declaration 
language and it should not contain unfair terms. For consent to be informed, the data subject should be aware at 
intended. Consent should not be regarded as freely given if the data subject has no genuine or free choice or is 
particular where the controller is a public authority and it is therefore unlikely that consent was freely given in 
all the circumstances of that specific situation. Consent is presumed not to be freely given if it does not allow 
(44)   Processing should be lawful where it is necessary in the context of a contract or the intention to enter into a 
situations such as where the data subject is a client or in the service of the controller. At any rate the existence of 
Where the data subject has given consent or the processing is based on Union or Member State law which 
mechanism such as the same credentials, used by the data subject to log-in to the on-line service offered by the 
whether, by whom and for what purpose personal data relating to him or her are being collected, such as in the 
where processing is addressed to a child, should be in such a clear and plain language that the child can easily 
within one month and to give reasons where the controller does not intend to comply with any such requests. 
and of the consequences, where he or she does not provide such data. That information may be provided in 
legitimately disclosed to another recipient, the data subject should be informed when the personal data are first 
information on that other purpose and other necessary information. Where the origin of the personal data 
possesses the information, where the recording or disclosure of the personal data is expressly laid down by law 
(63)   A data subject should have the right of access to personal data which have been collected concerning him or her, 
quantity of information concerning the data subject, the controller should be able to request that, before the 
information is delivered, the data subject specify the information or processing activities to which the request 
particular in the context of online services and online identifiers. A controller should not retain personal data for 
(65)   A data subject should have the right to have personal data concerning him or her rectified and a ‘right to be 
controller is subject. In particular, a data subject should have the right to have his or her personal data erased 
the processing of personal data concerning him or her, or where the processing of his or her personal data does 
not otherwise comply with this Regulation. That right is relevant in particular where the data subject has given 4.5.2016  EN      Official Journal of the European Union  L 119/13 
his or her consent as a child and is not fully aware of the risks involved by the processing, and later wants to 
notwithstanding the fact that he or she is no longer a child. However, the further retention of the personal data 
such a way that a controller who has made the personal data public should be obliged to inform the controllers 
should have the right to have the personal data transmitted directly from one controller to another. 
the processing of any personal data relating to his or her particular situation. It should be for the controller to 
to the attention of the data subject and presented clearly and separately from any other information. L 119/14  EN      Official Journal of the European Union  4.5.2016 
controller, or when the data subject has given his or her explicit consent. In any case, such processing should be 
authority. The representative should be explicitly designated by a written mandate of the controller or of the 
a requirement to store the personal data under Union or Member State law to which the processor is subject. 
ation. The Commission may also decide, having given notice and a full statement setting out the reasons to the 
country, take into account how a particular third country respects the rule of law, access to justice as well as in­
personal data or entire categories of the data contained in the register and, when the register is intended for 
operations,  as  well  as  the  situation  in  the  country  of  origin,  the  third  country  and  the  country  of  final 
processor not established in the Union when targeting data subjects residing on its territory. This should include 
has been lodged with them. Also where a data subject not residing in that Member State has lodged a complaint, 
be the supervisory authority of the Member State where the public authority or private body is established. 
which has issued the measure, the date of issue of the measure, bear the signature of the head, or a member of 
a complaint or does not act where such action is necessary to protect the rights of the data subject. The investi­
(142)  Where a data subject considers that his or her rights under this Regulation are infringed, he or she should have 
Member State, it should contact that court in order to confirm the existence of such related proceedings. If 
the courts of the Member States where the controller or processor has an establishment or where the data subject 
differ from one Member State to another, the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject should 
third country, a territory or a specified sector within that third country, or an international organisation does not 
95/46/EC, it is not necessary for the data subject to give his or her consent again if the manner in which the 
controller or a processor in the Union, regardless of whether the processing takes place in the Union or not. 4.5.2016  EN      Official Journal of the European Union  L 119/33 
(1) ‘personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an 
identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an 
identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors 
(9) ‘recipient’ means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or another body, to which the personal data are 
disclosed, whether  a third  party or  not.  However, public  authorities  which may receive  personal data in  the L 119/34  EN      Official Journal of the European Union  4.5.2016 
subject's wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the 
(17) ‘representative’ means a natural or legal person established in the Union who, designated by the controller or 
(a)  the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes; 
2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a written declaration which also concerns other matters, the 
the processing of the personal data of a child shall be lawful where the child is at least 16 years old. Where the child is 
below the age of 16 years, such processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that consent is given or authorised 
(a)  the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of those personal data for one or more specified 
Article 6(1) shall be carried out only under the control of official authority or when the processing is authorised by 
identity of the data subject is proven by other means. L 119/40  EN      Official Journal of the European Union  4.5.2016 
Article 11(2), the controller shall not refuse to act on the request of the data subject for exercising his or her rights 
the delay. Where the data subject makes the request by electronic form means, the information shall be provided by 
4. If the controller does not take action on the request of the data subject, the controller shall inform the data subject 
information necessary to confirm the identity of the data subject. 
(a)  the identity and the contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the controller's representative; 
(e)  the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any; 
(f)   where applicable, the fact that the controller intends to transfer personal data to a third country or international 
safeguards and the means by which to obtain a copy of them or where they have been made available. 
(a)  the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that 
with the following information: 
(a)  the identity and the contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the controller's representative; 
(e)  the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any; L 119/42  EN      Official Journal of the European Union  4.5.2016 
(f) where applicable, that the controller intends to transfer personal data to a recipient in a third country or internat­
(a)  the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that 
(c)  if a disclosure to another recipient is envisaged, at the latest when the personal data are first disclosed. 
(a)  the data subject already has the information; 
1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not personal data 
concerning him or her are being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data and the following 
(c)  the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed, in particular 
(g)  where the personal data are not collected from the data subject, any available information as to their source; 
makes the request by electronic means, and unless otherwise requested by the data subject, the information shall be 
personal data concerning him or her. Taking into account the purposes of the processing, the data subject shall have the 
Right to erasure (‘right to be forgotten’) 
1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the erasure of personal data concerning him or 
1. The data subject shall have the right to receive the personal data concerning him or her, which he or she has 
extent that it is related to such direct marketing. 
Article 89(1), the data subject, on grounds relating to his or her particular situation, shall have the right to object to 
(b)  is authorised by Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject and which also lays down suitable 
(c)  is based on the data subject's explicit consent. 
1. Where Article 3(2) applies, the controller or the processor shall designate in writing a representative in the Union. 
3. The representative shall be established in one of the Member States where the data subjects, whose personal data 
activities under its responsibility. That record shall contain all of the following information: 
(a) the name and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, the joint controller, the controller's representa­
(d)  the categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed including recipients in third 
(a)  the name and contact details of the processor or processors and of each controller on behalf of which the processor 
(a)  the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data; L 119/52  EN      Official Journal of the European Union  4.5.2016 
controller or the processor who has access to personal data does not process them except on instructions from the 
(b)  communicate  the  name  and  contact  details  of  the  data  protection  officer  or  other  contact  point  where  more 
4. Where, and in so far as, it is not possible to provide the information at the same time, the information may be 
data unintelligible to any person who is not authorised to access it, such as encryption; 
(d)  where applicable, the contact details of the data protection officer; 4.5.2016  EN      Official Journal of the European Union  L 119/55 
shall register and publish the code. 
of personal data from the third country or an international organisation to another third country or to another internat­
1. A  transfer  of  personal  data  to  a  third  country  or  an  international  organisation  may  take  place  where  the 
Commission has decided that the third country, a territory or one or more specified sectors within that third country, or 
(c)  the international commitments the third country or international organisation concerned has entered into, or other 
8. The Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union and on its website a list of the third 
purposes, the type of data subjects affected and the identification of the third country or countries in question; 
the processor shall be exempt from that liability, in whole or in part, only if it proves that that member is not 
such verification should be communicated to the person or entity referred to in point (h) and to the board of the 
(g)  the  transfer  is  made  from  a  register  which  according  to  Union  or  Member  State  law  is  intended  to  provide 
personal data or entire categories of the personal data contained in the register. Where the register is intended for 
taking into account whether or not there is an establishment of the controller or processor in the Member State of 
(c)  to order the controller or the processor to comply with the data subject's requests to exercise his or her rights 
request. Information exchanged shall be used only for the purpose for which it was requested. 
(a)  it is not competent for the subject-matter of the request or for the measures it is requested to execute; or 
authority receiving the request is subject. 
Board, using a standardised format any relevant information, including as the case may be a summary of the facts, the 
(a)  the members of the Board and the Commission of any relevant information which has been communicated to it 
1. The European Data Protection Board (the ‘Board’) is hereby established as a body of the Union and shall have legal 
(e)   examine, on its own initiative, on request of one of its members or on request of the Commission, any question 
(r)   provide the Commission with an opinion on the icons referred to in Article 12(7); 
(e)  the translation of relevant information; 
or place of the alleged infringement if the data subject considers that the processing of personal data relating to him or 
where he or she considers that his or her rights under this Regulation have been infringed as a result of the processing 
Member State where the data subject has his or her habitual residence, unless the controller or processor is a public 
given to the following: 
(h)  the manner in which the infringement became known to the supervisory authority, in particular whether, and if so 
any other identifier of general application. In that case the national identification number or any other identifier of 
that decision. It shall take effect the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union or at 
a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force. 
